[Music]
our next topic is the polarization of
electromagnetic waves this is an example
of a topic that we will discuss in terms
of plane waves but that is applicable to
other waves as well polarization is a
parameter we use to describe the
behavior of a wave over time
specifically we look at the time varying
orientation of the electric field vector
all plane waves have polarization that
can be categorized as either linear
circular or elliptical these names
describe the figure traced by the tip of
the electric field vector over time
viewed on a plane perpendicular to the
direction of propagation we will look at
each of these categories in turn the
first step when determining polarization
is always to choose an observation plane
normal to the direction of propagation
then you can determine polarization by
plotting the time domain electric field
and observing the figure traced by the
tip of the electric field vector